Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Frameworks
Engineer Chris Parker.
Thank you.
Welcome to Session 409--
What's New in Cocoa.
It's going to be a fast hour.
So I'm going to get right into it.
My name is Chris Parker.
I'm a Cocoa Frameworks engineer
for the last three years.
And we're starting with
a familiar formula here.
What you'll see is everything that
we've done in Cocoa so far for Tiger,
in both the app kit and foundation.
We'll be covering a lot of new features,
a lot of new significant
API changes or behavioral changes.
We're going to skip the bug fixes.
We're going to hope you guys are
all going to get out there and
read the release notes for those.
We'll talk about some usage patterns
for some of these new features.
And we'll also give you some
pointers to other sessions.
There's a lot of stuff in here with
a lot of new APIs that actually are
implemented in some other places.
So starting up with the app kit,
in Panther,
there was some enhanced printing
support to support things like
the number of pages you could put
across the page or down the page,
or start and end pages,
and collating settings,
and things like that.
We've added some automatic support.
We've added some nice support in
the printing system in Cocoa so
that existing applications will
get some of these new features.
But if you really want to do it right,
there's a new application
delegate method on NSApplication--
application print files with
settings and show print panels.
And this will give you an opportunity
to be able to get information about
what you're being told to print.
And you'll be able to
return a value that says,
hey, this printing operation succeeded.
It failed.
It's printing later.
There's also NSDocument
enhanced printing support.
So if you're NSDocument subclasses,
you can do print document with settings,
show print panel.
There's a delegate
object you can pass in,
a selector for did print selector,
and a context info pointer
that you'll get back when you
get this delegate callback.
The settings dictionary should
be applied to the NSPrintInfo
for the print operation,
and there are keys for
print pages across,
pages down, what time to print,
the printer name to print on.
So there's a lot better fine-grained
control in Cocoa now over the
printing mechanism that you
get for the information you
get from the finder or other places.
NSDocument now also has support
for dynamic document types.
So a lot of applications are being
written now using bundles to do
all of their reading and writing,
which means that they
can extend the number of,
the kinds of documents that
they can read and write.
There are a number of different ways
you can represent those documents.
So you can override using, to do this,
using a customizable output type,
you can override writable
types for save operation.
And you'd use this to limit those types.
So if you've got something in the window
that can only be represented as an RTFD,
you probably don't want to write out RTF.
You can return an
NSRA containing RTFD from this.
So some data may not be representable.
You can control what's actually shown
in the UI when you write this out.
NS Document now,
and in a lot of places throughout
the app kit and foundation,
you'll see this,
is now more consistently using NSError.
So there are new methods
with error parameters.
So init with contents of URL of type,
and now this by reference error pass.
If something goes wrong,
we'll tell you what went
wrong in that NSError.
Also, write to URL of type with error.
There's an error parameter on that also.
Again, you pass it by reference.
We'll try and tell you what went wrong.
We're using NSURL as our
locator more consistently
throughout foundation in the kit.
So you probably won't quite see so
much init with contents of file.
You'll start seeing a lot more
init with contents of URL.
We've seen it in mail, right?
You're typing away on your email message,
and it saves it periodically
in the drafts folder.
You might have three or
four drafts going on.
NSDocument now supports this
kind of autosaving directly.
So periodic autosaving of documents,
you can change--you can set how
often that autosave is going to
occur using set autosaving delay.
There's a new NSSaveOperation type that
you'll get told about when things happen.
And there's also,
because the autosaving mechanism
drops a copy of the document
next to the one you've got,
initialize it.
There's an initializer for customizing
the reopening of a document.
So if you want to say, "Oh,
you've got an autosaved version
here," you can init with the URL,
but the contents are going to
come from that autosaved document.
Okay?
And again, we're providing init with
URL with--init for URL with
contents of URL of type error.
And that error parameter is
going to have as much information
about what may have gone wrong
One of the things you see in mail is as
you've been working and you quit mail,
all those messages come back
when you fire it back up again.
NS document now supports a
thing called Fast Log Out.
So if you're a--if your NS document
class is supporting autosaving,
you can also get
Fast Log Out support automatically.
So when--Fast Log Out will come along,
it'll quit an application with no UI,
it'll save auto--it'll autosave
the modified documents.
And then when the--when the
application launches again,
it'll open all the
autosaved documents for you,
right where you left off.
So when you log out quickly,
all the stuff comes back.
If you're an NS document app,
you'll get most of this for free.
We've put new controls in the kit.
This is the NS level indicator.
There's a control and
a cell variant of this.
There are relevancy indicators.
That's the top one here.
So if you're displaying search results,
you'd use the relevancy indicator.
A capacity indicator,
how full something is.
The discrete capacity indicator,
so it fills up in quantums.
And a rating indicator,
so just like in iTunes with
the stars and the dots,
the rating indicator
here lets you do that.
And it's customizable.
It's customizable for tick marks,
the small and large ones,
kind of like the sliders.
Capacity indicators do automatic
critical and warning values.
So they'll turn yellow or
they'll turn red as it fills
up and gets closer to that,
you know,
running out of disk space indicator.
The ranking indicator also
supports custom images,
both for the filled in rank
and the not yet filled in rank.
So if you've got seven out of ten,
you can have seven stars
and three hollow stars.
There's a new NSDate picker control.
I lost the bet.
I thought the applause
was going to come later.
There's a control and
sell variant of this.
Its object value is an NSDate.
It's customizable,
so from what you're seeing here,
you can edit and you can control
what things you can edit,
what things you're not going to edit,
as well as enabling and disabling
display of elements of the picker.
There are range constraints.
You can set a min value and a max value.
And it also has full calendar, locale,
and time zone support.
And we'll talk about some more of that
in the foundation talk in a minute.
And there's also an additional
opportunity for you to validate the date
that's in there from a delegate method.
And also, again, you've seen it in mail,
NSTokenField.
There's a control and sell
variant of this as well.
So as you type,
you can set a tokenizing character,
and it'll break it up into
those nice little blue lozenges
that appear in the field.
So it behaves a lot like
mail's address fields.
It supports text completion.
This is actually a text view.
You can set your custom
character sets for tokenizing.
You can also set represented objects.
So if what you're putting in
here really isn't strings,
you can set the represented object
for each token and then have a string
representation for it show up here.
And when you drag it to the pasteboard,
there's actually support for
putting those represented
objects on the pasteboard.
There will also be support
for menus coming up.
So you can attach a menu to
these tokens and drop it down and
put your own actions on those.
And we actually have a very
short demo here of these.
We'll walk all the way
across this huge stage,
though.
So the new UI elements,
many of them are bindable out of the box.
I suppose I should look at the
smaller screen in front of me.
And the level indicator,
this is the discrete
capacity level indicator,
and we can set the warning value and the
critical value here somewhere up higher.
As I move the value slider up,
you'll see that as I cross the
50 percent mark within each bar,
it fills in.
Right, and as we get up here
close to the warning value,
it crosses over into yellow,
and then turns into red.
So we've now completely run
out of space here and have
to go buy another hard drive.
The date picker.
So this is just three date
pickers dragged out from the
interface builder palette.
And I can set the minimum date here.
Let's bump the year up
a little closer to--.
So, as I try and exceed the values
there it automatically stops for me.
And the delegate would have an
opportunity to handle these as well.
So, and finally, TokenField.
And TokenField actually is pretty slick.
If we launch text out of here,
just so I can have this up as well.
As I type, the default TokenField is set
to use comma as its separator.
So, this is, let's see,
get an email address here.
We have the tokens.
I can drag these tokens
around within the token field.
And if I select them all,
I can drag them out onto the
pasteboard into text edit,
and all of this stuff just
happens automatically.
This is nibware here.
I've got my main menu nib
that just drags these out as a
custom class for token field.
And I did a little bit of
binding stuff here for date
picker and for indicator cell,
and the setup for token field
is actually pretty short.
So we could go back to the slides,
please.
So as our UIs become more dynamic,
we need support for animation
specifically in Cocoa.
NSAnimation is the class
that supplies that.
So this provides timing
for animations in Cocoa.
It does some other things for you,
but it's mainly about timing.
There are three modes
for this-- blocking,
non-blocking, and non-blocking threaded.
So a blocking animation,
everything's going to stop
while the animation's running.
So the non-blocking animation
runs in the current run loop.
Other events are happening as it goes.
And the non-blocking threaded means
that we'll spin off a background
thread and do the animation back
there for you while other stuff
is happening in the foreground.
There's also an API that
supports animation progress,
frame rate control, as well as the curve.
So if it's going to proceed at the same
rate all the way across the animation,
or if it eases in and out,
it happens really slowly at first,
speeds up,
and then slows down again at the end.
So the progress API uses a
thing called progress marks.
So they're checkpoints for animations.
And you set the progress
marks via this progress marks
and set progress marks API.
You provide an NSArray of floats.
And as the animation proceeds,
the delegate will get callbacks
as it crosses those marks.
So if you set up animation progress
at 50% and at 75%, you'll hit those,
and your delegate will get called back.
There are also notifications
for these as well that you can
listen for for NS Animation.
And this animation also
allows you to link animations.
So once you've got the progress
mark set on a particular animation,
you can synchronize them using start
when animation reaches progress and
stop when animation reaches progress.
So you can say that this animation should
only start when that one hits 25%, and it
should stop when the other one hits 75%.
To do this with views,
a lot of the view animation
stuff is pretty common.
You want to do frames and ease
things in and out and do crossfades.
And this NSViewAnimation
subclass is how you do that.
So there's a dictionary that
defines the view animation behavior.
You set a number of different keys,
the target key, the start frame key,
the end frame key,
what kind of effect you want,
whether it's a fade in or a fade out.
And this can change
the frame and opacity,
and it can be applied to
both views and windows.
You initialize them using
an array of view animations.
So you can have five or six
different dictionaries that
represent the view animations.
And you can also set them.
So if you have an existing animation,
it's a mutable class,
you can change the array of animations.
And we actually have a
quick demo of this as well.
I have to switch projects.
is that.
So in the demo controller now,
there's a tab view in that nib.
And down here in demo controller dot m,
We do some calculations at the tab view,
did select tab view item delegate moment.
And after calculating the start frame
and the end frame and things like that,
we set up here the animation
parameters in a dictionary.
So the window is going to be the target.
We'll have a start
frame and an end frame.
We'll set up the animation,
set the blocking mode and the duration,
and start it.
So running this,
now as I shift from level
indicator to token field,
we're starting and ending the frame.
And in about four lines of code,
we've got that nifty effect
from system preferences.
And this can also do all
the crossfade and opacity.
So if you're fading out to something,
it'll actually hide the window
or order the window out or
hide the view automatically.
I can have the next slide, please.
We're starting to see with
those gorgeous 30-inch displays
that they won't let me have.
Resolution independent UI.
What we'd like to be able to do
here is allow the user to set the
scale of the interface to be as
large or as small as they want,
and they can make the tradeoff between
detail versus screen real estate.
If you're like me and you
want everything really,
really small, you'll be able to do that.
If you need the windows
a little bit larger,
you can scale that up.
This is independent of
the display resolution.
But what does this mean for you guys?
It means that you can't make
the assumption anymore that one
point is equal to one pixel.
The scaling factor is going to
affect some of the rectangles and
events that you get in the kit.
[Transcript missing]
NSBitmapImageRep now has new support
for additional image formats.
So we're not just handling
pre-multiplied RGBA anymore.
We now have floating
point 32-bit samples.
We can now take alpha as the
first portion of the sample order
when we read these images in.
We can also deal with
non-pre-multiplied images.
And there's also JPEG 2000 support.
This is probably the longest
method in this entire presentation.
I don't think it's the
longest method in the kit yet,
though.
In it with bitmap data planes,
the important bit down there is
the NSBitmapFormat bit field.
That actually lets you say things like,
"I'm loading alpha first," or
"I'm loading a different format."
NSGraphicsContext,
you can now specify compositing
operations in NSGraphicsContext.
So these are saved and restored along
with all the other operations of
saveGraphicState and restoreGraphicState.
They have no effect on existing
things that already take it.
So composite to point with operation,
that's already handled.
But this allows you to set the
compositing operation for draws.
NSView now supports drawing redirection.
And Panther views drew to Windows or
for printing and things like that,
and that's pretty much the
only place you could draw.
Now you can draw view hierarchies,
any view hierarchy,
to an arbitrary NSGraphics context.
So you'll be able to take
something like your dialog,
grab it into an NSGraphics context,
and put it on top of an
OpenGL view or something like that,
and incorporate that into other
user interface elements that
may come from other places.
So you use display rect,
ignoring opacity in context.
You can get bitmap image rep
for caching display in rect.
That'll return a caching
appropriate bitmap image rep.
And cache display in
rect to bitmap image rep,
you can take the rectangle
for a given view and slam it
right into that bitmap image.
Keeping up with NSView and NSWindow,
we have new resizing support.
One of the things that you do
when you resize a window is that
you're really only dirtying that
L-shaped portion in the lower right,
in the right-hand side.
So you're not dirtying the entire window,
so we probably shouldn't
draw the entire window.
So valid contents is preserved
in a drag and a live resize,
as long as it doesn't move relative to
the upper left-hand corner of the window.
So this is enabled by
default for Windows.
So when you drag out the Windows,
you'll get this behavior.
You can find out--you can opt
out of it using set preserves
content during live resize,
tell it no.
You can find out whether
it's doing that or not.
You can disable it by--it's disabled
by default for views rather.
So if you override preserves content
during live resize to return yes,
then it'll start doing
this behavior also.
But as you're resizing all of this stuff,
you're going to need
to know where to draw.
So what changed?
REC preserve during live resize
is that slot that didn't change,
that section that didn't change.
Get RECs exposed during live resize,
you'll get an array of four rectangles.
At present in the seed,
you're only going to get the bottom two,
but at most you may actually
wind up getting all four,
if the view inside can be moved
in the middle of the window.
So this can be called
anytime during live resize.
And you have after set frame size,
or before the recursive
display of the view hierarchy.
So you've got this window where
you can actually work with it.
NSWindow now automatically
calculates the key loop.
So as you add a view,
it's got a bunch of subviews,
it will automatically
recalculate this for you.
You can change this behavior using
setAutoRecalculatesKeyViewLoop.
And there are some accessors there also.
And you can also tell it immediately
recalculate the key view loop now.
Adding views to the window
recalculates the key loop.
So it will do it right when
the window is first ordered in.
And if you don't set the
initial first responder,
it's the same as the default.
And it's based on the order
of the views in the window.
So if you've been adding things in,
it will do it from that order.
NS Workspace.
Moving a little bit
into the file space now.
Custom icon creation.
Set icon for file options.
This supports transparency,
so if you've got any NS image,
it's got some transparency,
it's got some nice effects in it.
This will allow you to set
an icon on a given file.
There are some compatibility options.
Not all of our releases,
the operating system,
support all of these icon formats.
So if you tell it to
exclude quick draw elements,
icon creation,
then it's only going to be visible,
the icons will only be visible on 10.4.
If you exclude the 10-4 elements,
then it'll work everywhere,
but you won't get the spiffy,
larger icons.
And this supports
things up to 256 by 256.
In Panther, there were tablet events,
but tablets to Cocoa really
looked like a big special mouse.
And now in Tiger,
we've introduced explicit
tablet event support.
So native tablet events for Tiger.
So you'll get actually proximity events.
So as the pen approaches the tablet,
you'll actually get the event that says,
oh, it's getting near the tablet.
Tablet pointing events,
explicit for that also.
There are subtypes for the mouse events,
right click, left click, stuff like that.
And pointer type supports.
A lot of these pens have
both a pen tip and an eraser.
So you're actually going to be
able to tell the difference between
those in the event hierarchy.
There are accessors for most of
the common tablet properties.
These are things like pressure.
So when you stroke the pen,
you actually can find out how hard
the user is pressing on the tablet.
You'll get absolute X, Y,
and Z positions.
You'll also find out whether the
pen is tilted if it supports that.
Rotation, tangential pressure.
And these are NS responder methods
for tablet point and tablet proximity.
So you can hook this right into
the responder chain and handle
those at a higher level than the
view that you may be looking at.
NS Tree Controller,
hierarchical data structures.
The API parallels NSArray Controller.
So if you've got things
that are a tree structure,
you can now do tree binding with this.
It uses NS Index Path from Foundation.
We'll talk about that in a minute that
defines how to find something in a tree.
The content can be set to the root
of the tree of the model object.
So you just hook this up right
to the root and it'll worry
about finding all the children.
And it uses KVC to find the
children of a model object.
So set children key, set count key.
There's an opportunity
for performance there.
Insert object at a
range object index path.
You can provide that so that
you can insert objects into
the tree at specific locations.
The implication here is that this is
the mechanism that NS Outline View and
NS Browser use to be now fully bindable.
So if you've been waiting for that,
this is your big chance.
NS Table View now has better
auto-resizing support for its columns.
So we actually take into account
things like proportional resizing
for initial positions of columns.
Set column auto-resizing style,
there's a flag that you can set on that.
We now support custom
tooltips in NS Table View.
So if you want different tooltips
on different cells and rows,
you can get those now by
having your delegate return an
appropriate string from Table View,
tooltip for cell, rect, table, column,
row, mouse location.
It's still shorter than
that one from NS Bitmap.
Image Rep.
And finally, in NS Table View,
variable row heights in Tiger.
So your delegate can actually
say that the height of the
row is a specific float.
And you can note that the
height of the row is where the
specific set of indexes changed.
and his toolbar item now has some
automatic validation techniques.
It used to be the toolbar
relied on NSWindow,
on window updates in order
to do its validation work.
And now validation can be
done on a per item basis.
So you can set individual
tool items to say,
yes, this auto validates, no,
this doesn't.
You can also avoid overflow
with NSToolbarItems.
In some cases, in your toolbar,
you may actually want a particular
button to be on the toolbar all the time,
right?
So when you resize the window and
that overflow menu gets generated,
you can actually make sure that
some items will always be visible.
But in keeping with our theme
that the user is king here,
the users may want different
items visible themselves.
So even though you may want something
jammed up there all the time,
they may want something different.
There are some priorities you can
set using set visibility priority,
the standard low, high,
and user priorities.
Okay, the user one is the most.
You should not use
anything higher than that.
You can define any range in here.
These are defined in the kit headers.
You can take a look at it.
But standard means that basically
you're letting us do it.
If you assign something low,
it will be one of the first things that
gets pushed off in the overflow menu.
And if you do something high,
it will stay up and not get overflowed.
How did this slide wind up there?
NSFontDescriptor is now the
primary font reference for the kit.
And this replaces PostScript font
names as the method for
matching and substitution,
as well as we do cascading with this now,
too.
So you can set up different font
descriptors representing various
attributes without necessarily
having to specify the font itself.
Texting controls now support
base writing direction support.
This can be specified
on individual controls.
There's IB support forthcoming for this,
so that if you're fortunate enough
to have localizers working for you,
they can set the writing direction
on the controls in the various nibs.
The default setting is the natural
writing direction based on the content.
So if you've got a string that is in
a space that would be right to left,
this will get picked up
in that way automatically.
You can set it explicitly using
the base writing direction
accessors and specific ranges,
and you can also change
the base writing direction.
It'll toggle back and forth.
NSTextView now supports
multiple selection.
So there are new selection primitives
in the text system for multiple ranges.
And there are also some
new delegate methods.
And they take arrays of ranges
rather than just a single range.
And there's a new Find Panel action, too.
You can also have-- the
Find Panel actions are hooked up
to do things like select all of
the things that match all at once.
Existing methods,
if you've got code that is going
to operate in a TextView that
has this attribute set,
it'll return the first sub-range.
So things will continue to work for you.
You're only going to find
out about the first sub-range
that's selected in all of these.
The text system now supports tables.
So this is actually text edit
with an HTML imported table here.
And this is handled
through some new classes,
as well as lists.
Text system also supports lists.
The table's new classes are
NSTextBlock and NSTextTableBlock.
The lists allow you to do things
like customize the marker format,
so you can have one dot
or you can have a bullet,
or things like that.
These appear on attributes
on the paragraphs,
and there are also conveniences
for these on NSAttributedStrings.
You'll be able to pick these out of your
strings and render them how you like,
but the tech system will take care of
all the tables and stuff for you now.
We've also started to incorporate,
in keeping up with Spotlight
and things like that,
new document metadata.
So there are new document
attributes in our,
in our RTF files that we
support in the RTF reader.
For title, what company, subjects,
authors.
If you're fortunate enough to have an
editor who takes a look at your stuff,
you can set the editor
document attribute type.
All of these are available to
check for in the Spotlight APIs,
as well as right off
the document attributes.
NS-Type-setter.
I've taken a lot of the stuff
that was in the ATS-Type-setter,
the Apple type system type setter,
moved it up as the default
type setter system now in,
in Tiger.
And you'll be able to do things
like implement concrete subclasses
with your own layout engines.
And there's new access to a
number of ranges and attributes.
I could talk for an
hour on the text system,
but personally I don't know
enough about it and you guys don't
have an hour to sit here for it.
But there's another hour,
Advanced Development with Cocoa Text,
session 437 on Friday.
Doug Davidson will be talking about that
and he'll go into all of the tables,
lists and everything for, for Cocoa Text.
Talk about Foundation.
Move down a step.
Foundation now includes a new class,
NSXML
This is a DOM-based API.
You can initialize this from
strings and other types.
So if you have a URL--or if
you have an XML--if you have
an NSString that contains XML,
you can initialize it from that.
You can also initialize it right off the
network with a NIT with contents of URL.
There are options to set here,
things like fidelity and
what kind of preservation
you want and stuff like that.
It provides a DOM-like model,
so you can find out how many
children are in a particular node,
what the children are, insertion,
deletion, things like that.
It also supports a lot of querying
and transformation behaviors.
So XPath and Xquery are two query
formats that allow you to ask
questions of the document and find
out more information from that.
So you can actually say,
"Give me all of the nodes that have
attributes of this particular value."
So the XPath--nodes for XPath,
error and error will get returned
to you if something goes wrong.
Objects for Xquery,
Xquery is a technology that we've
been putting into things like
Sherlock and stuff like that.
We also have XSLT support.
So if you have a DOM tree and
you have an XSLT transform,
you can just ask for object by
applying XSLT and you'll get
back the appropriate items.
So that may be an NSXML document
depending on what you
ask for in the transform.
There is a session on this as well,
"Easy and Powerful XML Processing
with Cocoa." That's Friday at 10:30.
So if you're still here,
you should probably go
take a look at that.
It's going to be an excellent talk.
NSLocale.
Now with a lot more localization
information and things like that,
this is the preferred mechanism
and foundation to get localization
information out of the system.
So a lot of the things that you would
have gone to NS user defaults for,
you're going to go to NSLocale for now.
There's a lot of general information
that's stored in the NSLocale class.
NS--you can ask for the
available locale identifiers.
There are ISO language codes,
country codes, currency codes.
You can also ask for all the components
from a specific locale identifier.
And once you've got a locale,
you can get information from it.
So object for key will tell you
basically the same kind of localization
information you're getting from--again,
from NS user defaults.
Display name for key value,
some of these may be localized in their
particular languages and that's what this
display name for key value method is for.
So you can get information
that represents the actual
localized value for those.
In continuing with this,
NSDateFormatter now has a
number of new capabilities.
There are a lot more settings
to configure in NSDateFormatter.
You can go through and toggle
all sorts of switches in it.
This is also replacing a lot of
the functionality that you would
have gotten from NSUserDefaults.
It's based on the CFDateFormatter,
stuff that we've got
down in Core Foundation.
That's actually based on the
international components for Unicode.
So one side effect of this is
there's a new format string
available in date formatter.
So some of the things
that you've been doing,
you'll have to change a little
bit in order to get this
format to work correctly.
So if you've been formatting
dates in a particular way,
you may have to tweak that a little bit.
There's a compatibility mode.
Applications linked on
Panther will actually get this
compatibility information.
And you can set it so that the
formatter behavior will act
the old way versus the new way.
So if you've got existing code,
you want to make sure that it's
actually going to continue to
work the way you expect it,
can use this set format
or behavior method.
NSNumber formatter also has
a number of new capabilities.
There are new styles in formatting.
You can format decimal, currency,
or scientific styles.
You can spell things out, actually.
There are a number of new settings
for this for group separators,
whether you're showing
decimal in group separators.
Prefix and suffixes for numbers,
as well as text attributes
for some of those values.
And this also has compatibility mode.
Again, if you've got existing code,
it'll continue to work the old way,
but this is new for Tiger.
We spend a lot of time trying to do this.
We're deprecating as many
C string methods that do not have
encoding arguments as we can.
So you've got a blob of data,
but you don't have any
encoding information,
and instantiating a string from
that is sort of fraught with a
little bit of guesswork and peril.
So some new methods will report
errors in encoding conversion.
There are a lot of new methods
for the C string encoding.
We deprecated a bunch,
put a bunch in with encoding support,
and it turns out we actually have
less API than we started with.
So you can convert using
a specific encoding,
using init with C string encoding.
There's also string encoding sensing.
So when you init with
the contents of a URL,
we're going to pick out and try to
figure out what encoding that is.
And you'll get an error back.
You can also specify the
encoding on the output.
So when you write to the URL,
if you specify an
encoding that it can't do,
you'll get an error back about that also.
And again,
we're trying to put as many places
in Foundation in the kit where
we're using this error parameter
to be able to allow you to return
more information up to the user.
NSNet Service has some new features.
One of the things that developers
did a lot-- and I have to admit,
that's partially my fault,
because I did it in a sample code--
oops-- was leaving the resolve open.
If you leave the resolve
open for a long time,
that generates a lot of network traffic.
So now what we're doing is we're allowing
you to specify a timeout for resolves.
So you can say, resolve for five seconds.
Usually, if something's going to happen,
it's going to happen
in that five seconds.
So if you haven't gotten a response back,
it probably isn't coming.
So there's also text record access.
So for whatever reason,
the old get and set protocol specific
information methods are actually
deprecated now in NSNet Service.
And these are what you
should be using instead.
Set text record data
and text record data.
These are just NSData blobs.
There's some conveniences to shift
things back and forth in NSNet Service.
But this will allow you to be
able to put that information
out so that other rendezvous
enabled applications can see that.
It's a little data payload in each
Net Service that you can put in.
And you can monitor those
for when they change.
So this is actually very similar to
the mechanism that iChat uses in order
to update your status on rendezvous
and update your status string.
You can do the same kind of thing
now with NSNet Service using start
monitoring and stop monitoring.
And there's a new Net Service delegate
did update text record data
where when the remote service
updates its text record,
you'll get the data
back in that callback.
NSIndexPath.
NSIndexPath is a way that you
represent sequences of indexes.
So, it'll be something like 1.3.5,
which is the fifth child of the third
child of the first element in the path.
It's for navigating a tree of objects,
and this is partly how NSTreeController
gets a lot of its work done.
There are also accessors for this,
index at position and get indexes.
This will allow you to be able to pick
out individual indexes along the way.
The mechanism,
if you have to use this directly,
that's fine,
but it's mainly a behind the scenes
edition specifically for Tree Controller.
You've heard me jumping up and
down about NSError for a while.
We've specified a new error
domain for the Cocoa frameworks.
So NSCocoaErrorDomain,
as much as possible,
is going to be the error that we use,
the error domain that we use.
It may contain underlying
errors from other systems.
So if a file not found error
occurred way down here,
we'll bubble that up.
It will also include the underlying
NSErrors as keys in the dictionary,
as we were trying to do before.
This CocoaErrorDomain is specifically
for use with foundation in the kit.
We've defined a number of error codes
in app kit errors and foundation errors
in order to describe all of these.
There are some new methods
for richer error recovery.
So localized description
was already there,
and that's what you should be using
to describe the problem that occurred.
The localized recovery
suggestion is an opportunity
for you to say something like,
"Oh, you tried to save a document,
and the disk is full."
The Localized Recovery Options returns
an array of actions that the user can
take in order to solve their problem.
These should be designed specifically
for presentation to the user.
What you do with a domain
in code is up to you,
but these descriptions should be handled
specifically for showing to the user.
We're trying to work on a couple of
interesting ways to be able to bubble
this all the way up through into the kit,
and perhaps handle errors
in a more graceful,
dynamic fashion.
Spotlight metadata.
Most of the files on your disks have
a number of different attributes.
All right, creator, creation, time,
content, type.
Images have sizes and widths and
heights and DPIs and things like that.
And one of the things that we'd
like to be able to do is find them
absolutely as fast as possible.
All right.
And as files change as
they come onto the disk,
as they leave the disk,
we want to find out about those
changes as much as--as fast as we can.
One of the ways that we do this
is now with NSMetadataQuery.
So this is the Cocoa API that
surrounds the Spotlight API that
Steve was using in this demo and that
I believe there's a talk about soon,
in the next couple of days.
It uses NSPredicate.
NSPredicate lives up in
a different framework.
It lives up in Core Data.
It's an expression that evaluates to
true or false given a set of objects.
So you'll construct a predicate
that will define the kinds of
things that you're searching for.
And this finds files
matching that predicate.
And then it stores the results.
So you touch off the query,
and it's actually going to go
out and find all this stuff,
and it's going to hang on
to these results for you.
And it can group these
results and attributes.
So it can actually hang on
to all of these and say,
OK, well, I've got this list of results,
and I'll sort them according to
their creator or their author.
can also answer some specific
questions about the results set,
but most importantly,
it's actually a bindable model object.
So once you set off one of these queries,
you can actually hook it up in
Interface Builder and bind right to it.
So you can have a very
dynamic user interface.
Setting up a query is very simple.
You create it with alloc init,
you set the query's predicate,
and you start the query.
You can optionally stop the query,
but if you leave the query open,
it will continue to update its results.
So set predicate, start query,
and stop query.
This happens actually
on the current run loop,
the run loop that you
instantiated the object on.
And you can handle the results
either by direct access or binding.
So there's actually an accessor for
result count and result at index.
So you can actually ask it
specifically for individual
results and at specific locations.
Or you can just bind
to the results array.
The results set has a value list.
The value list is something like if
I've searched for all the RTFs on
my machine and I come up with 15,
I'll probably come up with a lot more,
but if I come up with only 15,
then I might have three
individual authors.
It might be me and Ali, my boss,
and Mark,
the guy who works down the hall.
So those three authors
work on those 15 documents.
That's one way that I can
group those documents.
Or I might have 250 MP3s
that I've searched for,
and they might only be in three genres.
Or four.
Rock, pop, classical, and something else.
I'd say country, but I'd be terribly
Results can be sorted by
the NS metadata query.
One of the things that happens is
the query is going to go out and
it's going to do all this work.
It's going to find all
these files on your disk.
But since the query has all
of this information about it,
you can tell the query to sort it.
And this is actually
a big performance win.
The query knows all this information.
It can do all the work to sort
it as the results come in.
And then when you actually go
ahead and display this in your
table view or in your outline view,
it's taking care of a lot of the
heavy lifting for the sorting for you.
Results can also be grouped
by their attribute values.
So again, those
Country MP3s can get
packed into one group,
along with, and then all the rock ones,
and
classical ones.
And this metadata query also
supports asynchronous updates.
So as-- if you leave the query open,
as files come and go from your disk,
this thing gets updated.
So the queries go through a phase.
When you first create them and
you touch off the Start Query,
there's a gathering phase.
It's going out.
It's finding as many
results as it can initially,
and it's going to drop-- it's going
to return those results to you.
If you continue to let the query run,
new results matching the
predicate will just appear and
you'll get a callback for that.
and files no longer matching
the predicate will disappear.
So if you have all this bound,
all this stuff sort of
just happens automatically.
There are some implications for this.
You should be as lazy as
possible when you're using this.
So when you get some of
these notifications that say,
"Hey,
my results have changed," you should
do as little processing as possible,
because the idea here is that
you're providing a dynamic
look at the file system.
A window into what's happening
as things come and go.
Okay.
And actually I have a
short demo here as well.
So if we could cut over.
So I have in my nib a simple field here
with a start button and a table view.
And if we look at the table view here,
we'll see in the table columns
portion of things that I've got
these bound to some identifiers.
This identifier is actually
this KMDItemFS name is actually
in the spotlight framework.
And this is--these will
be defined--this is the
The path here is the path
name of the file on disk,
and that's actually bound to KMDItemPath.
I've got my little results
array controller here,
and those bindings are set up to
the content array of my results.
And if we take a look at the
code here for a brief moment,
You'll see this in the release notes.
This is a way that we can control
what the notifications are that
you'll get for various things like the
initial notification count and time,
the progress notification,
and update notifications for
how often you get callbacks.
You can't really crank these down,
but you can extend the time.
You don't want to get these
notifications a lot because
it'll affect your performance.
I have a sender action here
set up to toggle the query.
So if I'm being told to start here,
I'm going to set up my predicate
so that I'm looking for file
system names that are matching
what I typed into the query string,
query field string.
I create this NS predicate,
and then set the predicate on the query.
I actually skipped a step here in that
when this thing wakes up from the nib,
it allocates and it knits itself.
We set these parameters in order
to handle the notifications,
and then here I'm actually taking
advantage of the fact that Query is
going to set these sort descriptors,
and it's going to set up an
initial sort for the file system
name based on an ascending sort.
I've added some notifications in here
that I believe actually I'm driving the
will change and did change right here,
but you can't bind to this directly.
And then, I just set the delegate,
start the query,
and change my button title.
There's not a whole lot of code here,
but it does actually--.
There may be more things on
this disk than I thought.
Hopefully, I won't have to show you
the crash reporter either.
I think this G5 has a bigger
hard drive than my laptop.
I'm not sure.
I'd go back and look at the code,
but you've already seen it.
Great.
I joked that I was going to have
a John Cameron Swayze here moment
and had to say I don't get it.
It worked in rehearsal, but it did.
It worked in rehearsal.
You'll just, I suppose,
have to take my word for it.
But--no, that's the P list.
But again, it's mainly just making sure
that you set the predicate up,
initialize the sort descriptors, and
[Transcript missing]
There we go.
That are coming out in Tiger.
Okay.
One of them is the Core Data Framework.
Core Data Framework provides
object life cycle management.
This is a model-driven system.
This is a way to manage persistence,
both in getting stuff up off of disk into
memory and getting it back out to disk.
There's a custom subclass,
NS Persistent Document,
that's been defined that handles this.
This will also allow you to
do a significant amount of
UI synchronization with a lot of
very tight bindings integration.
Okay.
One of the side effects of using
Core Data is automatic undo and redo.
And this is actually a new
framework that's on Tiger.
This is under the Cocoa umbrella.
Okay.
So if you're linking the Cocoa framework,
you're getting this for free.
And this provides everything
from faulting objects and now
so you have 10,000 objects and
you're only looking at 50 of them.
It'll take care of keeping only
those 50 in memory and handling
all of the rest as dynamic objects.
It handles all sorts of things like--.
Both actual object inheritance
as well as entity inheritance.
And there's--let me go back here.
There's actually an
introduction to Core Data Talk.
This is Andreas Wanker's team.
That's at session 418, Wednesday at 2:00.
The Qt kit.
There's a new QuickTime kit on Tiger,
providing Objective-C APIs,
new things for classes
for QuickTime media,
for Qt movie, movie view, track media,
stuff like that.
There's an IB palette for this.
And this actually completely
adopts the Cocoa API model,
using delegates and notifications.
You don't have to drop into
idle procs and FS specs,
anything like that.
And it also covers
media import and export.
And this is actually Thursday,
session 214 at 9 a.m.
There's going to be a talk about that.
The Instant Message framework
provides present services.
So when your buddies change--
There's online status availability
methods for getting all the
buddy information out of
provides official art
for the present status.
Those little jelly gumdrops that
are green and yellow and red.
It'll map AB persons and
name handles automatically.
And this is actually the same
mechanism that iChat uses in
order to get its work done.
So you can actually add this
to your applications now.
You saw in the demo,
core image framework provides
image processing that's going
to push all the filtering and
transforms and effects and things
like that off on the graphics card.
So if you really wanted to hear
those fans fire up in the PowerBook,
you've got an opportunity
to do it in Cocoa here.
It uses the graphics card to do the work.
There will be APIs to convert
between NS images and CI images,
and NS colors and CI colors,
so you can do all those
sepia tones and the things.
If you want to make all the
electric zebras you want,
you can.
Please, read the release notes.
There's a lot of bug fixes
described in the release notes,
a lot of pointers to new behaviors,
a lot of different techniques for
handling a lot of these new behaviors,
as well as APIs that
I didn't even mention here.
There's a lot of stuff in Cocoa.
The documentation is now in the,
I believe on the Tiger seat,
it's in ADC reference
library documentation,
Cocoa.
The release notes are also
in a similar location in the
release notes folder there for
Cocoa Foundation and for the app kit.
If you have any questions
about this stuff,
Cocoa feedback at group.apple.com.
There's Matt Formica, who is the
Cocoa Development Tools Evangelist,
and John Randolph,
everybody's favorite DTS engineer.